README.md, before:

<div align="center">
	<p>
		<img alt="Thoughtworks Logo" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/twplatformlabs/static/master/psk_banner.png" width=800 />
	</p>
  <h1>twdps/circleci-infra-aws</h1>
  <h3>PSK CircleCI Convenience Images</h3>
  <a href="https://app.circleci.com/pipelines/github/twplatformlabs/circleci-infra-aws"><img src="https://circleci.com/gh/twplatformlabs/circleci-infra-aws.svg?style=shield"></a> <a href="https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/twplatformlabs/circleci-infra-aws"></a>
</div>
<br />

Tools and packages used in infrastructure pipelines managing AWS.  

Primary packages include:  
- terraform, tflint, trivy, terrascan, checkov  
- python & awscli/boto3  
- awspec, bats  
- docker, kubectl, helm, cosign, circlepipe 

_Review the build and CVE scan logs in the release artifacts for specific packages versions and known vulnerabilities (if any)._  

**signature**. Images are signed using `cosign`. Verify images using the twplatformlabs [public key](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/twplatformlabs/static/master/cosign.pub).  
```bash
cosign verify --key cosign.pub twdps/circleci-infra-aws:alpine-2025.04
```  
**software bill of materials**. For each published image, a _Software Bill of Materials_ is generated using [syft](https://github.com/anchore/syft) and added as an attestation.  

validate attestation:  
```bash
cosign verify-attestation --type https://spdx.dev/Document --key cosign.pub twdps/circleci-infra-aws:alpine-2025.04
```
download manifest and extract bill of materials (sbom.spdx.json):  
```
cosign download attestation twdps/circleci-infra-aws:alpine-2025.04 > attestation.json  
jq -r '.payload' attestation.json | base64 -d > envelope.json
jq '.predicate' envelope.json > sbom.spdx.json
```
_Note. Dockerhub Scout does not appear to support non-docker attestations_  

### Tagging Scheme

This image has the following tagging scheme:

```
twdps/circleci-infra-aws:-<YYYY.MM>
twdps/circleci-infra-aws:-stable
twdps/circleci-infra-aws:-edge
```

`<YYYY.MM>` - Release version of the image, referred to by the 4 digit year, dot, and a 2 digit month. For example `2025.04` would be the monthly tag from April 2025. This image is generated monthly, based on the then current release of the base image and related packages and provides a predictable fixed point for use in an executor Dockerfile. Review the build log in the pipeline artifacts for the specific image and package versions. Occasionally there will be interim patches released and you may see `2025.04.1` or addtional numbered versions.  

`stable` - generic tag that always points to the latest, monthly release image. Typically used by other recurring builds and not recommended for pipeline usage. Pin pipelines to specific month-tagged builds.  

`edge` - is the latest development of the Base image. Built from the `HEAD` of the `main` branch. Intended to be used as a testing version of the image with the most recent changes.   

_Note. Terraform 1.10 seems to introduce a breaking change when using terraform cloud as `remote` backend. Hashi wants app.terraform.io to use the cloud backend directive going foward rather then remote and has made some change based on that assumption, which is resulting in recurring errors when attempting to run terraform plan or apply. During the initial fetch-state action it locks the state and then returns an error saying it could not release the lock. It doesn't do this 100% of the time but more often than not. Reverting to 1.9 resolved the problem. The `cloud` backend does not support prefix naming and this results in additional overhead when attempting to maintain DRY tf pipeline patterns since the backend resources does not support tf variables._

_Recent tag terraform versions_
| tag       | terraform version |
|-----------|:-----------------:|
| 2026.01   | v1.9.8            |
| 2026.01.1 | v1.10.5           |
| 2026.01.2 | v1.11.4           |
| 2026.01.3 | v1.12.2           |
| 2026.01.4 | v1.13.5           |
| 2026.01.5 | v1.14.3           |

Commit message:

[nc] release updates for new build
Signed-off-by: Nic Cheneweth <nchenewe@thoughtworks.com>

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
	<p>
		<img alt="Thoughtworks Logo" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/twplatformlabs/static/master/psk_banner.png" width=800 />
	</p>
  <h1>twdps/circleci-infra-aws</h1>
  <h3>PSK CircleCI Convenience Images</h3>
  <a href="https://app.circleci.com/pipelines/github/twplatformlabs/circleci-infra-aws"><img src="https://circleci.com/gh/twplatformlabs/circleci-infra-aws.svg?style=shield"></a> <a href="https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/twplatformlabs/circleci-infra-aws"></a>
</div>
<br />

**New for 2026: Image now published from ghcr.io**  

Tools and packages used in infrastructure pipelines managing AWS.  

Primary packages include:  
- terraform, tflint, trivy, snyk, checkov  
- python & awscli/boto3  
- awspec, bats  
- docker, kubectl, helm, cosign
- circlepipe 

>**Note:** This image was previously published to Dockerhub as twdps/circleci-infra-aws. Beginning in February 2026, image is now released from ghcr.io/twplatformlabs/circleci-infra-aws.  

**signature**. Images are signed using `cosign`. Verify images using the twplatformlabs [public key](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/twplatformlabs/static/master/cosign.pub).  
```bash
cosign verify --key cosign.pub twdps/circleci-infra-aws:alpine-2025.04
```  
**provenance and bill of materials**. For each published image, a _provenance_ and _Software Bill of Materials_ is generated by buildx and added as an attestation. Use common tools for inspection.  

Or, use the [from-manifest.sh](https://github.com/twplatformlabs/circleci-remote-docker/blob/main/from-manifest.sh) script to print json versions of either to stdout.  

### Tagging Scheme

This image has the following tagging scheme:

```
ghcr.io/twplatformlabs/circleci-infra-aws:[alpine | ubuntu]-<YYYY.MM>
ghcr.io/twplatformlabs/circleci-infra-aws::[alpine | ubuntu]-latest
ghcr.io/twplatformlabs/circleci-infra-aws:[alpine | ubuntu]-dev.SHA:0:7
```

`<YYYY.MM>` - Release version of the image, referred to by the 4 digit year, dot, and a 2 digit month. For example `2025.04` would be the monthly tag from April 2025. This image is generated monthly, based on the then current release of the base image and related packages and provides a predictable fixed point for use in an executor Dockerfile. Review the build log in the pipeline artifacts for the specific image and package versions. Occasionally there will be interim patches released and you may see `2025.04.1` or addtional numbered versions.  

`latest` - generic tag that always points to the latest, monthly release image. Typically used by other recurring builds and not recommended for pipeline usage. Pin pipelines to specific month-tagged builds.  

`-dev.SHA:0:7` - is the latest development of the Base image. Built from the `HEAD` of the `main` branch. Intended to be used as a testing version of the image with the most recent changes.   

_Note. Terraform 1.10 seems to introduce a breaking change when using terraform cloud as `remote` backend. Hashi wants app.terraform.io to use the cloud backend directive going foward rather then remote and has made some change based on that assumption, which is resulting in recurring errors when attempting to run terraform plan or apply. During the initial fetch-state action it locks the state and then returns an error saying it could not release the lock. It doesn't do this 100% of the time but more often than not. Reverting to 1.9 resolved the problem. The `cloud` backend does not support prefix naming and this results in additional overhead when attempting to maintain DRY tf pipeline patterns since the backend resources does not support tf variables._

_Recent tag terraform versions_
| tag       | terraform version |
|-----------|:-----------------:|
| 2026.01   | v1.9.8            |
| 2026.01.1 | v1.10.5           |
| 2026.01.2 | v1.11.4           |
| 2026.01.3 | v1.12.2           |
| 2026.01.4 | v1.13.5           |
| 2026.01.5 | v1.14.3           |
